feat(docs): add tags to Fetch Network guides section (#221)
fetchai/docs: docs/decentralisation.md

## What are decentralized systems?

A decentralized system is an interconnected system where no single central entity (individual, organization, or group) is the sole authority. In a decentralized system, control and decision-making is done by those participating in the system where they have (more or less) equal standing in terms of influence. This is in contrast to a centralized system where a central authority is above all others in terms of rights and privileges.

A good example of a decentralized system is the world’s telephone system; there is no central authority that runs it but numerous participants coordinate together to make it work.

> Another great example is when you fly internationally from one place to another. There are numerous participants working together and communicating equitably together to make that a seamless experience. 

Reviewer: equitably is a difficult word. Replace.

The most obvious example of a distributed system is cloud computing, where tasks are shared among numerous computers or a database hosted on more than one computer.

What determines whether a system is decentralized or not is whether or not there is a central authority. What determines whether a system is distributed is whether the processing is done in one or multiple physical locations. 

## Decentralized vs centralized

In a centralized system, there is a central authority that manages the system and makes decisions about how it is run. 
Some examples of centralized systems:
* Expedia: Hotel owners and people looking for hotel rooms connect to each other through Expedia, rather than communicating and transacting directly together.
* Messaging services such as WhatsApp: People communicate with each other through a centrally controlled and owned messaging service.
* Amazon: Buyers and sellers interact commercially through Amazon.

## Why are decentralized systems useful?

> Decentralised systems are useful because they solve the issue of trust. Users don't have to trust a central authority, which itself has the motivation to behave in its own interests and agenda but rather the system behaves in the interest of its participants. Which in turns means that participants trust each other more.

Reviewer: The last sentence is not quite correct.

Reviewer: Generally, this paragraph isn't ideal. Why decentralised system? we essentially want to point to the positive points below and say when you want these characteristics, decentralisation is your choice.

Reviewer: The point about trust can be made one of the positive points below.

**Trust minimisation**: The fact that in decentralised systems, participants do not have to go through central authorities to interact with others and achieve their goals means there is no need to trust central entities to handle your needs. Any guarantees needed by the system has to be provided by the system itself and they way it is designed and (due to Transparency) this is typically well known.

Put this after `Transparency`.

## Positive characteristics
There are 4 key positive characteristics of decentralized systems:

> * **Democratic** Decentralized systems require participation in order to successfully function, and therefore they are intrinsically democratic systems.

Reviewer: intrinsically is too difficult. Replace (e.g. `by nature`, `naturally`, ...).

* **Open**
Participants can freely join or leave as they wish,. The system is open to new participants and does not stop existing ones leaving.
* **Public**
Because decentralized systems are managed and run by their participants (Democratic) and anyone can in principle join the system or leave (Open), these systems tend to be public and their inner workings are not kept confidential.
* **Transparent**

> In order for the participants of a decentralized system to contribute to its liveliness, they must be aware of how the system works, how it is managed, and so on. Therefore, decentralized systems tend to be quite transparent. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for the participants of a decentralized system to contribute to its liveliness, they must be made aware of how the system works, how it is managed, and so on. Decentralized systems therefore tend to be quite transparent.
```

## Limitations

Decentralized systems are not useful where simplicity and affordability are the key priorities, as there is more complexity in managing a decentralized system and participants have to be willing to actually participate.  

For example a company payroll system would not make sense to decentralize as you want central authority over it and need a system that is simple to manage.

> 

Reviewer: Main drawbacks are speed/efficiency and simplicity. Decentralised version of a centralisazed system is almost always less efficient at achieving the same result (exactly because there is not a single decision maker, rather a collection of decision makers). Also it takes more engineering to create a decentralised architecture for a system over a centralised one. The patrol example is good in this regard.

Reviewer 2: Have made this change to the text.

Some of the limitations of decentralised systems:

> * **Speed**: Decentralized systems are often slower than centralized systems, as there is no single authority with an interest in making the system as fast as possible and individual participants may not have the incentive to prioritize overall speed of the system. 

Reviewer: Shouldn't say `there is no single authority with an interest in making the system as fast as possible`. The system is owned by the owners of the participants and it is in their interest the system runs as fast as possible.

Reviewer: The system is slower because there is more than one decision maker and arriving at a consensus in a group takes more time than a single entity making decisions. Also the other characteristics (e.g. openness) makes the system less efficient (should allow anyone to come in/leave so the system must be designed to cope with this).

* **Efficiency**: Decision making about the system requires participation, which makes it far slower to make changes to the system as it takes time for participants to agree to changes.

> * **Control**: As control is shared by participants, controlling and managing the system is more complicated and slower.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Control**: Because a decentrralized system is often run collectively by its participants, controlling how the system is managed and the development direction it takes is difficult.
```

> * **Privacy**: The requirement for participation inevitably results in a loss of privacy as participants need to actively engage with other participants in order to manage and make decisions about the system.

Reviewer: Shouldn't say this.

> * **Anonymity**: There are times and situations where participants may actually want to be anonymous, and this is something that decentralized systems do not really allow.

Reviewer: Shouldn't say this.

Reviewer: Instead add:

* **Simplicity**: it takes more engineering to enable openness and allow a decentralized system to achieve the same result a centralized one achieves with a single authority, via a group of (maybe heterogeneous) nodes. Moreover, providing the same guarantees that a centralized system ensures via the central enforcer but via proper mechanism design makes for a far more complicated system design.

Reviewer: Edit the above.

## What are decentralized systems?

A decentralized system is an interconnected system where no single entity (individual, organization, or group) is the sole authority. In a decentralized system, control and decision-making is done by those participating in the system where they have (more or less) equal standing in terms of influence. This is in contrast to a centralized system where a central authority is above all others in terms of rights and privileges.

A good example of a decentralized system is an ant colony, where control is distributed among the colony's members. Without any form of central control, an ant colony successfully achieves its goals, performs all its required tasks, and effectively responds to the ever changing conditions on the colony's environment through the collective contribution of the individual ants.

Another great example is when you fly internationally from one place to another. There are numerous participants working together and communicating efficiently to make that a seamless experience without there being a central unit that manages and plans it all.

**There are two key characteristics of decentralized systems:**

> * **Equality of participants**
> In a decentralized system, a key feature is that the participants contribute together to the control and decision-making of the system, with each of them taking an active equal role in managing the system. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Equality of participants**: the participants contribute together to decision-making in the system, with each of them taking an active equal role in managing the system. 
```

> * **Lack of central authorities**
> It is not that decentralized systems lack authority to make changes to the management of the network, but the authority to do that is distributed among the participants. The system is run by the participants for the benefit of the participants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Lack of central authorities**: It is not that decentralized systems lack the authority to make changes to the management of the network, rather this authority is distributed among the participants. The system is run by the participants for the benefit of the participants.
```

## Decentralized vs distributed

These are very easy to get confused, and sometimes it seems they are used interchangeably but they are actually quite different.

A decentralized system is one where there is a lack of central authorities. 

A distributed system is a system in which the physical location of the participants, the servers, the nodes, and whatever other components involved are in different places. So instead of the system being physically all in one place, different parts of the system are located on physically different places and the processing of tasks are shared between them.

The most obvious example of a distributed system is cloud computing, where tasks are shared among numerous computers or a database hosted on more than one computer.

> What determines whether a system is decentralized or not is whether or not there is a central authority. What determines whether a system is distributed is whether the processing is done in one or multiple physical locations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What determines whether a system is decentralized or not is whether or not there are central authorities. What determines whether a system is distributed is whether the processing is done in one or multiple physical locations. 
```

## Decentralized vs centralized

In a centralized system, there is a central authority that manages the system, makes decisions about how it is run and exercises control over the other components of the system. 
Some examples of centralized systems:
* Expedia: Hotel owners and people looking for hotel rooms connect to each other through Expedia, rather than communicating and transacting directly together.
* Messaging services such as WhatsApp: People communicate with each other through a centrally controlled and owned messaging service.
* Amazon: Buyers and sellers interact commercially through Amazon.
* Client-server model: Clients interact with each other only through the server, a great example of this is email where communication between two users goes through a server.  

## Why are decentralized systems useful?

> Decentralised systems are useful because they are open and democratic, more transparent, and they are run solely in the interests of their participants by their participants.  

Reviewer 3: _They are run solely in the interest of their participants by their participants can be written in a more simplified form,_ it's a bit confusing at the moment.

Reviewer: suggestion?

Reviewer: suggestion?

Reviewer 3: Suggestion is only that we can write in more simplified form/manner.

## Positive characteristics

> These are some of the key properties of decentralized systems:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are some of the key benefits of decentralized systems:
```

> * **Democratic** Decentralized systems require participation in order to successfully function, and therefore they are naturally democratic systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Democratic**: Decentralized systems require participation in order to successfully function, and therefore they are naturally democratic systems.
```

> * **Open**
> Participants can freely join or leave as they wish,. The system is open to new participants and does not stop existing ones leaving.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Open**: Participants can freely join or leave as they wish,. The system is open to new participants and does not stop existing ones leaving.
```

> * **Public**
> Because decentralized systems need to be  managed and run by their participants (Democratic) and anyone can in principle join the system or leave (Open), these systems are often public and their inner workings are not kept confidential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Public**: Because decentralized systems need to be  managed and run by their participants (Democratic) and anyone can in principle join the system or leave (Open), these systems are often public and their inner workings are not kept confidential.
```

> * **Transparent**
> In order for the participants of a decentralized system to contribute to its liveliness, they must be made aware of how the system works, how it is managed, and so on. Decentralized systems therefore tend to be quite transparent. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Transparent**: In order for the participants of a decentralized system to contribute to its liveliness, they must be made aware of how the system works, how it is managed, and so on. Decentralized systems therefore tend to be quite transparent. 
```

> * **Trust minimisation** The fact that in decentralised systems, participants do not have to go through central authorities to interact with others and achieve their goals means there is no need to trust central entities to handle your needs. Any guarantees needed by the system has to be provided by the system itself and the way it is designed, and (due to Transparency) this is typically well known.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Trust minimisation**: The fact that in decentralised systems, participants do not have to go through central authorities to interact with others and achieve their goals means there is no need to trust central entities to handle your needs. Any guarantees needed by the system has to be provided by the system itself and the way it is designed, and (due to Transparency) this is typically well known.
```

## Limitations

> It is clear that a system with more than one decision maker is going to be more complex to engineer than one where all the decisions are made by a single authority. This is because there needs to be an additional mechanism that enables decision making within a group. On top of that, the speed of decision making is likely to be slower because there are more participants involved in making any decision. 

Reviewer: This is repeated below. Also it breaks the pattern of the section above.

Some of the limitations of decentralised systems:

* **Speed**: Decentralized systems are often slower than centralized systems. Because there is more than one decision maker, decisions have to be made by consensus in the group and arriving at that consensus takes more time than a single entity making the decision.  

> * **Efficiency**: Decision making about the system requires participation, which makes it far slower to make changes to the system as it takes time for participants to agree to changes. Also because the system is open, so participants can leave/join as they wish, then the system has to be designed to cope with an often changing number of participants. All this added complexity inevitably affects the efficiency of the operation of the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Efficiency**: In decentralized systems, decision making about the system requires participation. This makes it far slower to make changes to the system as it takes time for participants to agree to changes. Also because the system is open, so participants can leave/join as they wish, then the system has to be designed to cope with an often changing number of participants. All this added complexity inevitably affects the efficiency of the system's operation.
```
```suggestion
* **Efficiency**: Decision making about the system requires participation, which makes it far slower to make changes to the system as it takes time for participants to agree to changes. Also because the system is open, so participants can leave/join as they wish, then the system has to be designed to cope with an often changing number of participants. All this added complexity inevitably affects the efficiency of the operation of the system.
```

> * **Efficiency**: Decision making about the system requires participation, which makes it far slower to make changes to the system as it takes time for participants to agree to changes. Also because the system is open, so participants can leave/join as they wish, then the system has to be designed to cope with an often changing number of participants. All this added complexity inevitably affects the efficiency of the operation of the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Efficiency**: In decentralized systems, decision making about the system requires participation. This makes it far slower to make changes to the system as it takes time for participants to agree to changes. Also because the system is open, so participants can leave/join as they wish, then the system has to be designed to cope with an often changing number of participants. All this added complexity inevitably affects the efficiency of the system's operation.
```
```suggestion
* **Efficiency**: Decision making about the system requires participation, which makes it far slower to make changes to the system as it takes time for participants to agree to changes. Also because the system is open, so participants can leave/join as they wish, then the system has to be designed to cope with an often changing number of participants. All this added complexity inevitably affects the efficiency of the operation of the system.
```

> * **Control**: Because a decentralized system is often run collectively by its participants, controlling how the system is managed and the direction of its development is difficult.

Reviewer 3: **Suggestion:**  Limitations>control> 

We can add:
" No one owns the data but simultaneously everyone owns the data"

Reviewer: Though a valid point, it doesn't really fit here. The point here is about having ownership and thus control over the whole system and how it is managed, run, developed, etc.

Reviewer: See if you can integrate this point elsewhere.

> * **Control**: Because a decentralized system is often run collectively by its participants, controlling how the system is managed and the direction of its development is difficult.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Control**: Because a decentralized system is often run collectively by its participants, controlling how the system is managed and the direction of its development is difficult.
```

> * **Simplicity**: For any system, it is often more complex to engineer a decentralized architecture and enable openness than to design a centralized one to achieves the same system goals via a central enforcer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Simplicity**: For any system, it is often more complex to engineer a decentralized version which enables openness than a centralized one that achieves the same goals via central enforcers. 
```

## What are decentralized systems?

A decentralized system is an interconnected system if no single entity (individual, organization, or group) is the sole authority. In a decentralized system, control and decision-making is in the hands of those participating in the system and they have (more or less) equal standing in terms of influence. This is in contrast to a centralized system where a single authority is above all others in terms of rights and privileges.

A good example of a decentralized system is an ant colony, where control is distributed among the colony's members. Without any form of central control, an ant colony successfully achieves its goals, performs all its required tasks, and effectively responds to the ever changing conditions on the colony's environment through the collective contribution of the individual ants.

Another great example is when you fly internationally from one place to another. There are numerous participants working together and communicating efficiently to make that a seamless experience without there being a central unit that manages and plans it all.

**There are two key characteristics of decentralized systems:**

> * **Equality of participants**: all participants contribute towards the system's decision-making and control, and each of them takes an active equal role in managing the system.

Reviewer 4: Saying each participant takes an equal role may be a bit too strong. In proof-of-stake consensus for example, voting power often depends on how much the participant has staked.

What determines whether a system is decentralized or not is whether or not there are central authorities. What determines whether a system is distributed is whether the processing is done in one or multiple physical locations.

## Decentralized vs centralized

In a centralized system, there is a central authority that manages the system, makes decisions about how it is run and exercises control over the other components of the system. 

Some examples of centralized systems:

* Expedia: Hotel owners and people looking for hotel rooms connect to each other through Expedia, rather than communicating and transacting directly together.
* Messaging services such as WhatsApp: People communicate with each other through a centrally controlled and owned messaging service.
* Amazon: Buyers and sellers interact commercially through Amazon.
* Client-server model: Clients interact with each other only through the server, a great example of this is email where communication between two users goes through a server.  

## Why are decentralized systems useful?

> Decentralised systems are useful because they are open and democratic, more transparent, and they are run solely in the interests of their participants by their participants.  

Reviewer 4: We should probably be consistent with decentralized vs decentralised.

## Positive characteristics

These are some of the key benefits of decentralized systems:

* **Democratic**: Decentralized systems require participation in order to successfully function, and therefore they are naturally democratic.

> * **Open**: Participants can freely join or leave as they wish,. The system is open to new participants and does not stop existing ones leaving.

Reviewer 3: Participants can freely join or leave as they wish,. 

The punctuation is incorrect.

> * **Public**: Because decentralized systems need to be  managed and run by their participants (Democratic) and anyone can in principle join the system or leave (Open), these systems are __often__ public and their inner workings are not kept confidential.

Reviewer 3: Because decentralized systems need to be  managed and run by their participants -> Because decentralized systems need to be managed and run by their participants

## What are decentralized systems?

> A decentralized system is an interconnected system where no single central entity (individual, organization, or group) is the sole authority. In a decentralized system, control and decision-making is done by those participating in the system where they have (more or less) equal standing in terms of influence. This is in contrast to a centralized system where a central authority is above all others in terms of rights and privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A decentralized system is an interconnected system where no single entity (individual, organization, or group) is the sole authority. In a decentralized system, control and decision-making is done by those participating in the system where they have (more or less) equal standing in terms of influence. This is in contrast to a centralized system where a central authority is above all others in terms of rights and privileges.
```

> A good example of a decentralized system is the world’s telephone system; there is no central authority that runs it but numerous participants coordinate together to make it work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A good example of a decentralized system is an ant colony where control is distributed among the colony's members. Without any form of central control, an ant colony achieves its goals, performs the required tasks, and responds to changing conditions in the colony's environment via the collective contribution of individual ants.
```

> Another great example is when you fly internationally from one place to another. There are numerous participants working together and communicating efficiently to make that a seamless experience. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Another great example is when you fly internationally from one place to another. There are numerous participants working together and communicating efficiently to make that a seamless experience. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another great example is when you fly internationally from one place to another. There are numerous participants working together and communicating efficiently to make that a seamless experience without there being a central unit that plans it all.
```

## Decentralized vs distributed

These are very easy to get confused, and sometimes it seems they are used interchangeably but they are actually quite different.

A decentralized system is one where there is a lack of central authorities. 

A distributed system is a system in which the physical location of the participants, the servers, the nodes, and whatever other components involved are in different places. So instead of the system being physically all in one place, different parts of the system are located on physically different places and the processing of tasks are shared between them.

The most obvious example of a distributed system is cloud computing, where tasks are shared among numerous computers or a database hosted on more than one computer.

What determines whether a system is decentralized or not is whether or not there is a central authority. What determines whether a system is distributed is whether the processing is done in one or multiple physical locations. 

## Decentralized vs centralized

> In a centralized system, there is a central authority that manages the system and makes decisions about how it is run. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a centralized system, there is a central authority that manages the system, makes decisions about how it is run and exercises control over the other components of the system.
```

Some examples of centralized systems:
* Expedia: Hotel owners and people looking for hotel rooms connect to each other through Expedia, rather than communicating and transacting directly together.
* Messaging services such as WhatsApp: People communicate with each other through a centrally controlled and owned messaging service.
* Amazon: Buyers and sellers interact commercially through Amazon.
* Client-server model: Clients interact with each other only through the server, a great example of this is email where communication between two users goes through a server.  

## Why are decentralized systems useful?
Decentralised systems are useful because they are open and democratic, more transparent, and they are run solely in the interests of their participants by their participants.  

## Positive characteristics

> There are 4 key positive characteristics of decentralized systems:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 5 key positive characteristics of decentralized systems:
```

* **Democratic** Decentralized systems require participation in order to successfully function, and therefore they are naturally democratic systems.
* **Open**
Participants can freely join or leave as they wish,. The system is open to new participants and does not stop existing ones leaving.
* **Public**

> Because decentralized systems are managed and run by their participants (Democratic) and anyone can in principle join the system or leave (Open), these systems tend to be public and their inner workings are not kept confidential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because decentralized systems need to be managed and run by their participants (Democratic) and anyone can in principle join the system or leave (Open), these systems are often public and their inner workings are not kept confidential.
```

* **Transparent**
In order for the participants of a decentralized system to contribute to its liveliness, they must be made aware of how the system works, how it is managed, and so on. Decentralized systems therefore tend to be quite transparent. 

> * **Trust minimisation** The fact that in decentralised systems, participants do not have to go through central authorities to interact with others and achieve their goals means there is no need to trust central entities to handle your needs. Any guarantees needed by the system has to be provided by the system itself and the way it is designed and (due to Transparency) this is typically well known.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Trust minimisation** The fact that in decentralised systems, participants do not have to go through central authorities to interact with others and achieve their goals means there is no need to trust central entities to handle your needs. Any guarantees needed by the system has to be provided by the system itself and the way it is designed, and (due to Transparency) this is typically well known.
```

## Limitations

> The main limitations of decentralized systems are speed/efficiency and simplicity. A decentralized version of a centralized system is almost always less efficient at achieving the same result (exactly because there is not a single decision maker, rather a collection of decision makers). 

Reviewer: This needs to be written more diplomatically.

> Compared with a centralized system, decentralized architechture is more complex and therefore it takes more engineering to  create the decentralised architecture for a system compared to a centralised one, with its associated cost and time implications.

Reviewer: The above two paragraphs need to be rewritten for style and hasve to be made more diplomatic.

> For example a company payroll system would not make sense to decentralize as you want central authority over it and need a system that is simple to manage and quick to operate.

Reviewer: No need for an example.

Some of the limitations of decentralised systems:

> * **Speed**: Decentralized systems are often slower than centralized systems, because there is more than one decision maker, decisions have to be made by consensus in the group and arriving at that consensus takes more time than a single entity making the decision.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Speed**: Decentralized systems are often slower than centralized systems. Because there is more than one decision maker, decisions have to be made by consensus in the group and arriving at that consensus takes more time than a single entity making the decision.  
```

* **Efficiency**: Decision making about the system requires participation, which makes it far slower to make changes to the system as it takes time for participants to agree to changes. Also because the system is open, so participants can leave/join as they wish, then the system has to be designed to cope with an often changing number of participants. All this added complexity inevitably affects the efficiency of the operation of the system.

> * **Control**: Because a decentralized system is often run collectively by its participants, controlling how the system is managed and the development direction it takes is difficult.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Control**: Because a decentralized system is often run collectively by its participants, controlling how the system is managed and the direction of its development is difficult.
```

> * **Simplicity**: It is more complex to engineer a decentralized system to enable openness and allow a decentralized system to achieve the same result that a centralized one achieves with a single authority. The system design is more complicated as a mechanism has to be designed that achieves the same result as a central enforcer in a centralized system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Simplicity**: It is often more complex to engineer a decentralized architecture for a system and enable openness than to achieve the same goals via a central enforcer. 
```

> 

Reviewer: Needs a closing paragraph/conclusion.
